Phillip Stark Lecture

Stochastic Process in space and time (location and occurrence in time)
Marked Stochastic Process

Exponential distribution is memoryless
    given that you haven't had event at time t, the chance that you 
    have it at t + delta is the same as probability of t

Hawkes' Process - background events follow a poisson process. That event can spawn a family of events. Any event has at most 1 parent

Made a big map of faults in the area and looked at geodetic measurements

Long-term: how much is the ground moving

Then do some geology. 

Slip factor - some of the moving will happen that doesn't involve earthquakes. 

Parcel movement into two pieces-seismic part and non-seismic part. 
They model the uncertainty by pretending that the errors of the quantities are independent gaussian random variables with mean 0. 
Then randomly select parameters for the probability models

They pretend that reality is like a draw from a hat where the average vaule of the parameter is what they think it is. Departures from that is gaussian normal. 

Moment = size of the earthquake

Repeat this until they get 2000 models that they can't rule out as crazy because they satisfy the slip constraint

Categorize the earthquakes that have occured 

Fit 3 different probability models to earthquakes. 
Combine stochastic moels to estimate the probability of a large earthquake

No idea what it means. None of the standard interpretations of probability applies. 

They equate frequencies with probabilities. BAD ******

Not enough data in california to see if it's true. 

Spending time and effort is a distraction from the real problem. Being ready for the big earthquake that is coming. 


Earthquake probability as a metaphor
Idea that earthquakes occur as if a casino game being played. 
People are arguing about the rules of that game. 
Why not like terrorism instead?

Why is the urn model relevant?

Justification for it is that it is a compact way for the data. That is actually false. Do the data come from a poison distribution? Hypothesis tests fails. 
Nobody is stopping them

Earthquakes are like terrorists bombings. It'll go off, we just don't know when. 

Where does the randomness come from?
The fact that you have a rate doesn't mean you have a probability. 

Randomness doesn't come from the rate, randomness comes from the random seletion. 

Don't get random for free. Testing whether it appears to be random doesn't make it random

just because assuming there's an average time between failures doesn't give you a probability distribution

How do we test predictions?

People have typically modeled the earthquakes as a stochastic process

Want to avoid assumption of earthquakes being random
Is there some permutation based approach that doesn't involve a probability distribution?

What is a sensible null-hypothesis?
Ultimately we want to say "predictions no better than chance". Question is, what chance?
"prediction no better than one with a mindless method"
