Toad meadows in yosemite mountains. 

using very limited data
sampling gaps of no data
paper surveys 

used general linear models and general additive models


for every model what is the probability of breeding
distribution networks, disperal distance
look at meadows and their neighbors. 
What would happen if we deleted a meadow? How does that change the probabilities of meadows in the park? Found that it doesn't affect much the quality of neighbors if they had a lot of neighbors already. Affected more the intermediate. 

look at meadows as a traffic network. can identify breeding hubs in the park

has application to other fields of study like genetics or climate change. All from this dataset from meadows.

Questions:
What should management priority be?

Use network analysis to detect hotspots of breeding meadows and isolated meadows and high-deletion impact

2. Do horses have a negative impact on toads?

Stories but no data. 
Stark-"The plural of anecdote is not data."
Can't look at one meadow, hoofprint. Need to look at the patterns across the park. 

How do you find causality with observational data? Lots of problems with inference. 

Big data same way- lots of observational data. 

Reshuffle the horses and toads with the existing distribution (bootstrap)

Can see an environmental gradient

100 meadows 10 have toads, 10 have packstocks. 2 have overlap.
Suppose that use of pack stock have nothing to do with toads
Means that labeling of packstock is arbitrary to toad breeding
Is 2 smalll?
How often would you see an overlap of 2 or fewer? If it is surprising then that is evidence that packstock affects toads.

All else being equal, how likely is that overlap due to chance alone?

Weight or not weight different bins. Didn't have an apriori reason. 

Weak evidence that horses helped the toads

Uncertainty
errors in toad detection
We know that the positives are real but the negatives might be falsely detected
There was no bias between horse meadows and non=horse meadows.
Concluded that that error was not significant

Errors reported stock use
Number of horses reported. Not always a 100% honest
Not a systematic bias in reporting that would change relationship that we're seeing. 

errors in stock use location
"Jane's meadow"
We do'nt know which meadow that was. 
Do all possible combination and assign them there
What's the worst case? What are the extremes?

Conclusion: surprings that relationship b/w packstock and toads were negative

blend a simple predictive occupancy model with netowrk analysis to: do all these things

with permutation approach: infer the effect of a rare stressor on a rare species
non-parametric test



Phillip Stark lecture
Looking at the assumptions of the different statistical tests. 
2 sample t tests, 1 sample t-test on the differences, permutation test

We're still using the t-statistic,it matters how we find the signficance level. 

Likert Scale - Teaching evaluations, doctor asking how much pain you feel on scale of 1 to 10. you're using numbers, but they are still categorical. Can't take averages of categorical data even if they are numbers. 

F statistic- between sum of squares (BSS), within sum of squares (WSS)

Some claimed precursors of earthquakes:

foreshocks, patterns,
electromagnetics
cloud formations
infrared
well water composition, temperature and level
geodetics
animal behavior

Most popular stochastic model is Poisson (spatially heterogeneous, temporarlly homogeneous, marked?)
Gamma renewal processes
weibull, lognormal, normal, double exponential
ETAS
Brownian passage time

Poisson process vs poisson distribution
Everytime there is an earthquake, i wait an exponentially amount of time for the next one

Interpretation of coin tosses. 
